Even the smallest person can change the course of the future. — Galadriel, The Fellowship of the Ring
All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us. — Gandalf, The Fellowship of the Ring
Not all those who wander are lost. — Bilbo Baggins, The Fellowship of the Ring
Faithless is he that says farewell when the road darkens. — Gimli, The Fellowship of the Ring
There is some good in this world, and it’s worth fighting for. — Samwise Gamgee, The Two Towers
My precious. — Gollum, The Two Towers
I would have gone with you to the end, into the very fires of Mordor. — Aragorn, The Fellowship of the Ring
Even darkness must pass. A new day will come. — Samwise Gamgee, The Two Towers
The world is indeed full of peril, and in it there are many dark places. — Haldir, The Fellowship of the Ring
The road goes ever on and on. — Bilbo Baggins, The Fellowship of the Ring
I wish it need not have happened in my time. — Frodo Baggins, The Fellowship of the Ring
Courage is found in unlikely places. — Gildor, The Fellowship of the Ring
Deeds will not be less valiant because they are unpraised. — Aragorn, The Return of the King
Many that live deserve death. And some that die deserve life. — Gandalf, The Fellowship of the Ring
Go back to the shadow! You shall not pass! — Gandalf, The Fellowship of the Ring
The Ring has awoken, it’s heard its master’s call. — Gandalf, The Fellowship of the Ring
There is always hope. — Aragorn, The Two Towers
The board is set, the pieces are moving. — Gandalf, The Return of the King
The age of Men is over. The time of the Orc has come. — Gothmog, The Return of the King
I am no man! — Éowyn, The Return of the King
Fear is the mind-killer. — Paul Atreides, Dune
He who controls the spice controls the universe. — Baron Harkonnen, Dune
Hope clouds observation. — Reverend Mother Mohiam, Dune
A beginning is the time for taking the most delicate care. — Princess Irulan, Dune
Respect for the truth comes close to being the basis for all morality. — Duke Leto, Dune
The mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve, but a reality to experience. — Paul Atreides, Dune
The sleeper must awaken. — Paul Atreides, Dune
Power attracts the corruptible. — Frank Herbert (Narration), Dune Messiah
The spice must flow. — Multiple Characters, Dune
Without change, something sleeps inside us. — Duke Leto, Dune
Muad’Dib. — Paul Atreides, Dune
Think you of the fact that a deaf person cannot hear. Then, what deafness may we not all possess? — Reverend Mother Mohiam, Dune
Religion is the emulation of the adult by the child. — Paul Atreides, Dune Messiah
A process cannot be understood by stopping it. — Frank Herbert (Narration), Dune
Empires do not suffer emptiness of purpose. — Princess Irulan, Dune
Hope is the denial of reality. — Bene Gesserit Saying, Dune
When religion and politics travel in the same cart, the whirlwind follows. — Reverend Mother Mohiam, Dune
God created Arrakis to train the faithful. — Fremen Saying, Dune
Survival is the ability to swim in strange waters. — Bene Gesserit Saying, Dune
Give as few orders as possible. Once you’ve given orders on a subject, you must always give orders on that subject. — Duke Leto, Dune
Violence is the last refuge of the incompetent. — Salvor Hardin, Foundation
Never let your sense of morals prevent you from doing what is right. — Salvor Hardin, Foundation
Scientific truth is beyond loyalty and disloyalty. — Gaal Dornick, Foundation
To succeed, planning alone is insufficient. One must improvise as well. — Salvor Hardin, Foundation
Nothing has to be true, but everything has to sound true. — Salvor Hardin, Foundation
The most dangerous weapon is that which you do not recognize. — Hari Seldon, Foundation
A fire-eater must eat fire, even if he has to kindle it himself. — Salvor Hardin, Foundation
It pays to be obvious, especially if you have a reputation for subtlety. — Salvor Hardin, Foundation
A nuclear blaster is a good weapon, but it can point both ways. — Salvor Hardin, Foundation
Psychohistory is the science of human behavior reduced to mathematics. — Hari Seldon, Foundation
Against stupidity, the gods themselves contend in vain. — Quoting Schiller, Foundation
There are no nations! There is only the Foundation. — Salvor Hardin, Foundation
Every crisis seems final, yet every crisis passes. — Hari Seldon, Foundation
A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of small minds. — Quoting Emerson, Foundation
The fall of Empire, gentlemen, is a massive thing. — Hari Seldon, Foundation
The greatest weapon is information. — Salvor Hardin, Foundation
The Empire will fall; nothing can prevent it. — Hari Seldon, Foundation
To expect the unexpected shows a thoroughly modern intellect. — Quoting Wilde, Foundation
The future is not predetermined. — Hari Seldon, Foundation
Scientific progress is like a game of chess. — Hari Seldon, Foundation
Man is what he believes. — Dostoyevsky, Demons
The soul is healed by being with children. — Dostoyevsky, The Idiot
The degree of civilization in a society can be judged by entering its prisons. — Dostoyevsky, Notes from the House of the Dead
To live without hope is to cease to live. — Dostoyevsky, Notes from Underground
Pain and suffering are always inevitable for a large intelligence and a deep heart. — Dostoyevsky, Crime and Punishment
Above all, don’t lie to yourself. — Dostoyevsky, The Brothers Karamazov
What is hell? I maintain it is the suffering of being unable to love. — Dostoyevsky, The Brothers Karamazov
Taking a new step, uttering a new word, is what people fear most. — Dostoyevsky, Crime and Punishment
The darker the night, the brighter the stars. — Dostoyevsky, Crime and Punishment
Man is unhappy because he doesn’t know he’s happy. — Dostoyevsky, Demons
Much unhappiness has come into the world because of bewilderment and things left unsaid. — Dostoyevsky, Demons
The secret of man’s being is not only to live but to have something to live for. — Dostoyevsky, The Brothers Karamazov
People speak sometimes about the bestial cruelty of man, but that is terribly unjust and offensive to beasts. — Dostoyevsky, Demons
The best way to keep a prisoner from escaping is to make sure he never knows he’s in prison. — Dostoyevsky, The House of the Dead
Nothing is easier than denouncing the evildoer; nothing is more difficult than understanding him. — Dostoyevsky, Crime and Punishment
A new philosophy, a new way of life, is not given to every generation. — Dostoyevsky, Demons
Beauty will save the world. — Dostoyevsky, The Idiot
There is no subject so old that something new cannot be said about it. — Dostoyevsky, Demons
Man has it all in his hands, and it all slips through his fingers from sheer cowardice. — Dostoyevsky, The Brothers Karamazov
The greatest happiness is to know the source of unhappiness. — Dostoyevsky, Demons
All happy families are alike; each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way. — Narrator, Anna Karenina
Everyone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself. — Tolstoy, Miscellaneous Writings
If you look for perfection, you’ll never be content. — Anna Karenina, Anna Karenina
The two most powerful warriors are patience and time. — Tolstoy, War and Peace
Respect was invented to cover the empty place where love should be. — Anna Karenina, Anna Karenina
There is no greatness where there is not simplicity, goodness, and truth. — Tolstoy, War and Peace
Nothing is so necessary for a young man as the company of intelligent women. — Tolstoy, War and Peace
Wrong does not cease to be wrong because the majority share in it. — Tolstoy, Miscellaneous Writings
Happiness does not depend on outward things, but on the way we see them. — Tolstoy, Miscellaneous Writings
Historians are like deaf people who go on answering questions that no one has asked them. — Tolstoy, War and Peace
The strongest of all warriors are these two — Time and Patience. — Tolstoy, War and Peace
All, everything that I understand, I understand only because I love. — Tolstoy, War and Peace
There is no greatness without simplicity. — Tolstoy, War and Peace
Every heart has its own skeletons. — Tolstoy, Anna Karenina
Nothing is so necessary for a man as a real friend. — Tolstoy, War and Peace
The law of love could be best understood and learned through little children. — Tolstoy, Miscellaneous Writings
True life is lived when tiny changes occur. — Tolstoy, Miscellaneous Writings
One of the first conditions of happiness is that the link between man and nature shall not be broken. — Tolstoy, Miscellaneous Writings
Seize the moments of happiness, love and be loved! That is the only reality in the world. — Tolstoy, War and Peace
There is no greatness where simplicity, goodness, and truth are absent. — Tolstoy, War and Peace
